---
title: "Decentralization: Blockchain Technologies' Impact on Modern Organizational Governance"
date: 2023-08-07
excerpt: "Ethan Bernstein (HBS), Hanna Halaburda (NYU), Ying-Ying Hsieh (Imperial), Alex Murray (Oregon), Joana Pereira (LUBS), and Jean-Philippe Vergne (UCL)"
collection: talks
permalink: /talks/2023-08/aom
type: Symposium
venue: Academy of Management (AOM) Annual Conference 2023
location: Boston, US
---

At the Academy of Management (AOM) Annual Conference 2023 in Boston, I co-chaired the symposium Web3 "**Decentralization: Blockchain Technologies' Impact on Modern Organizational Governance**" with Magnus van Haaren (RSM) and Wenqian Wang (HKBU). 

Panelists include: Ethan Bernstein (HBS), Hanna Halaburda (NYU), Ying-Ying Hsieh (Imperial), Alex Murray (Oregon), Joana Pereira (LUBS), and Jean-Philippe Vergne (UCL).

This panel symposium aims to explore the opportunities for understanding Web3 decentralization in blockchain-based organizations that arise from management theories' competing arguments. Blockchain technology, based on distributed ledger technology, is a disruptive technology that provides a decentralized database of immutable transactions maintained across peer-to-peer networks. Theoretical lenses like transaction cost economics, agency theory, mechanism design theory, institutional theory, and organization design are frequently used to examine blockchain-based organizational governance. However, these theories present competing arguments and inconsistencies regarding the effectiveness of blockchain-based organizational governance. The symposium will provide a platform for discussing the need for more theoretical clarity and for examining the impact of decentralized blockchain-based governance models on organizational processes and performance. The symposium will bring together established blockchain scholars and members of the technology and innovation management, strategic management, and organization and management theory interest groups to discuss new insights into classic managerial issues.

Watch the video below to get a glimpse of the exciting topics and discussions that were covered in this symposium. The voices in the video were created using the AI technologies of Heygen, showcasing the power of AI-generated content in promoting academic events.


{% raw %}
<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-top: 177.78%; padding-bottom: 0; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px 0 rgba(63,69,81,0.16); margin-top: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 0.9em; overflow: hidden; border-radius: 8px; will-change: transform;">
  <iframe loading="lazy" style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0; border: none; padding: 0; margin: 0;" src="https://www.canva.com/design/DAGFBz0py1Y/WApoTnpwa8Hi3QqCg2Td0g/watch?embed" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" allow="fullscreen"></iframe>
</div>
{% endraw %}