---
title: "Humans and Algorithms in Organizations: Navigating the Intersection of Blockchain and AI"
date: 2024-08-13
excerpt: "Oliver Baumann (SDU), Robert Wayne Gregory(U-M), Hanna Halaburda (NYU Stern), Vivianna Fang He (St. Gallen), and Alex Murray (Oregon)"
collection: talks
permalink: /talks/2024-08/aom
type: Symposium
venue: Academy of Management (AOM) Annual Conference 2024
location: Chicago, US
---

At the Academy of Management (AOM) Annual Conference 2024 in Chicago, I will co-chair the symposium Web3 "**Humans and Algorithms in Organizations: Navigating the Intersection of Blockchain and AI**" with Magnus van Haaren (RSM) and Carlos Santana (NTNU).

Speakers include: Oliver Baumann (SDU), Robert Wayne Gregory(U-M), Hanna Halaburda (NYU Stern), Vivianna Fang He (St. Gallen), and Alex Murray (Oregon).

This symposium delves into the integration of blockchain and artificial intelligence (AI) within organizational design and theory, focusing on their impact on decentralized decision-making and governance. It navigates a series of theoretical lenses to dissect this integration. First, it employs bounded rationality to understand the delegation of complex tasks to AI, in the context of human cognitive limitations. Next, transaction costs are used to evaluate the governance implications of blockchain-enabled smart contracts. The role of AI in reshaping organizational structures is also a focal point, particularly through the lens of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). Additionally, the symposium probes into the effects of AI on network effects within digital platforms. Concluding the theoretical exploration, it considers the interplay between machine learning and human judgment for theorizing in organizational research. This comprehensive inquiry aims to advance our understanding of how emerging technologies like blockchain and AI are reshaping the landscape of organizational design and decision-making processes.

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-top: 177.7778%;
 padding-bottom: 0; box-shadow: 0 2px 8px 0 rgba(63,69,81,0.16); margin-top: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 0.9em; overflow: hidden;
 border-radius: 8px; will-change: transform;">
  <iframe loading="lazy" style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; top: 0; left: 0; border: none; padding: 0;margin: 0;"
    src="https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.canva.com&#x2F;design&#x2F;DAGFBz0py1Y&#x2F;WApoTnpwa8Hi3QqCg2Td0g&#x2F;watch?embed" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" allow="fullscreen">
  </iframe>
</div>
<a href="https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.canva.com&#x2F;design&#x2F;DAGFBz0py1Y&#x2F;WApoTnpwa8Hi3QqCg2Td0g&#x2F;watch?utm_content=DAGFBz0py1Y&amp;utm_campaign=designshare&amp;utm_medium=embeds&amp;utm_source=link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Video generated by Canva and Heygen</a> 